# STAT468-Senior-Research-Project
Date Started: September 4, 2025
Last Updated: January 8, 2026

This repository contains my complete work for STAT468, the Senior Research Project and Capstone course for the undergraduate Statistics major at the University of Delaware within the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources. My STAT faculty mentor for this project was Professor Bryan Crissinger, who taught many of the undergraduate STAT courses that I completed for my Bachelor of Science in Statistics degree from the University of Delaware. 

My overall goal was to investigate and quantify athletic predisposition to injury in major sports at both the professional and collegiate level of athletics. Of course, the academic requirements of the STAT468 Capstone course shaped the work I did for this project. I was required to develop a 15-20 page report that followed the standard setup of a statistical analysis project. The Introduction section contains my research questions, hypotheses, and motivations. Next, the Literature Review section includes my academic research into the internal and external factors that are related to injury and what is currently being done to address injuries in sports. The Metholodogy section details my data collection, data cleaning, data transformation, data analysis, and statistical analysis steps. My Results and Discussion section shows my results for the data and statistical analysis steps with my qualitative takeaways from these quantitative findings. Finally, my Conclusion and Future Research section summarizes my findings and describes future work that could be done with more/improved access to online data for the sports leagues studied.

Data sets were found for the English Premier League (EPL), National Football League (NFL), National Hockey League (NHL), and major National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) sports. Data was stored using Microsoft Excel and cleaned/transformed using Microsoft Power Query. The raw data that was found online can be found in the 'raw-data' folder, while the cleaned/transformed data sets can be found in the 'transformed-data' folder. These files are in both .csv and .xlsx forms. Using R and Statistical Analysis Software (SAS), regression models were built for the EPL, NFL, and NCAA data sets. The programming scripts for these regressions can be found in the 'scripts' folder. Because the raw NHL data was stored in Tableau, data visualizations were created in the place of a statistical regression. The Tableau visualizations can be found in both .twbx and .twb forms within the 'scripts' folder. The 'output' folder includes the SAS results from the statistical regression models. Finally, the 'deliverables' folder contains the work I submitted for the major assignments of the STAT468 Capstone course. These deliverables, uploaded in both .docx and .pdf forms, include a formal proposal, progress report, Powerpoint presentation (which was presented in-person to STAT faculty and staff), rough rough draft, rough draft, and final draft.

Professor Crissinger's UD page: https://www.udel.edu/academics/colleges/canr/departments/applied-economics-and-statistics/faculty-staff/bryan-crissinger/

